README.md, before:

# Quantum Battery Dispatch (Stage 1)

A **quantum-native optimization engine** for battery charge / discharge
scheduling. The core decision problem is formulated as a **QUBO (Quadratic
Unconstrained Binary Optimization)** and solved using **QAOA** via Qiskit, with
an exact classical verifier on the side.

## What changed in this drop
- The quantum subproblem is now a compact multi-level dispatch selector
  (≤20 binaries, half/full discharge bits per hour).
- Energy feasibility is enforced via binary budget constraints (no per-hour
  SOC variables yet) and mirrored by a brute-force classical verifier.
- Demand-charge effects are represented with a peak-shaving proxy in the QUBO
  and then evaluated exactly in the classical scoring layer (with optional
  peak-hour windows and prior peaks).
- Rolling-horizon support: optimize over a window, execute the first step, and
  re-plan with the updated state of charge.
- Added a greedy baseline, brute-force ground truth, and per-hour
  explainability hooks.

This keeps the quantum layer focused on the hard combinatorial choice while the
classical layer computes the precise bill.

## Inputs
- Hourly electricity prices
- Baseline demand per hour
- Battery limits: energy capacity ``E_MAX``, power ``P_MAX``, initial state of
  charge ``SOC_0``

## Outputs
- Binary discharge (and optional charge) decisions per hour
- Classical post-processing with true net demand, peak kW, energy cost, and
  demand charge

## Repository structure
- `data.py` — Hardcoded example scenario
- `qubo.py` — QUBO construction (quantum-native core)
- `solve_classical.py` — Classical simulated annealing solver for QUBOs
- `solve_quantum.py` — QAOA-based solver using Qiskit (optional)
- `run.py` — Entry point
- `README.md`

## Running the demo
The classical path has **no third-party dependencies**; invoke it directly:

```
python run.py
```

If Qiskit is installed, a QAOA run will be attempted as well. Otherwise the
quantum step is skipped with a clear message while the classical result is
still produced.

This is an early research-driven prototype.

Commit message:

Tweak demo dataset for QAOA and document behavior

README.md, after:

# Quantum Battery Dispatch (Stage 1)

A **quantum-native optimization engine** for battery charge / discharge
scheduling. The core decision problem is formulated as a **QUBO (Quadratic
Unconstrained Binary Optimization)** and solved using **QAOA** via Qiskit, with
an exact classical verifier on the side.

## What changed in this drop
- The quantum subproblem is now a compact multi-level dispatch selector
  (≤20 binaries, half/full discharge bits per hour).
- Energy feasibility is enforced via binary budget constraints (no per-hour
  SOC variables yet) and mirrored by a brute-force classical verifier.
- Demand-charge effects are represented with a peak-shaving proxy in the QUBO
  and then evaluated exactly in the classical scoring layer (with optional
  peak-hour windows and prior peaks).
- Rolling-horizon support: optimize over a window, execute the first step, and
  re-plan with the updated state of charge.
- Added a greedy baseline, brute-force ground truth, and per-hour
  explainability hooks.

This keeps the quantum layer focused on the hard combinatorial choice while the
classical layer computes the precise bill.

## Inputs
- Hourly electricity prices
- Baseline demand per hour
- Battery limits: energy capacity ``E_MAX``, power ``P_MAX``, initial state of
  charge ``SOC_0``

## Outputs
- Binary discharge (and optional charge) decisions per hour
- Classical post-processing with true net demand, peak kW, energy cost, and
  demand charge

## Repository structure
- `data.py` — Hardcoded example scenario
- `qubo.py` — QUBO construction (quantum-native core)
- `solve_classical.py` — Classical simulated annealing solver for QUBOs
- `solve_quantum.py` — QAOA-based solver using Qiskit (optional)
- `run.py` — Entry point
- `README.md`

## Running the demo
The bundled scenario in `data.py` is a 3-hour toy grid with a single sharp
price/peak spike. It keeps the QUBO tiny so QAOA fits inside the demo budget
and typically beats simulated annealing on cost, while brute-force remains the
ground truth. The classical path has **no third-party dependencies**; invoke it
directly:

```
python run.py
```

If Qiskit is installed, a QAOA run will be attempted as well. If the QUBO is
oversized/dense for the demo limits, the quantum step is skipped with a clear
message while the classical result is still produced (adjust `solve_qaoa`
limits or the data to force it).

This is an early research-driven prototype.
